AcademiX is a web-based application for the automation of academic, financial and
administrative activities of the Institute of Information Technology,University of Dhaka. This is a
system that can support four types of user roles, including Student, Teacher, Staff, and Super
Admin. Each of these will have different features, responsibilities, and access privileges.
User Registration & Access Control :
All users are required to register with the system using their official IIT email address before
accessing it. During registration the user needs to:
● Select their role: Student or Teacher or Staff or Super Admin.
● Personal information provided should include:
○ First Name
○ Last Name
○ Email
○ Phone Number
○ Required credential information
○ Roll No and Registration Number if user is student

After proper submission of Informations the users shall be given a one time code to their email
and if the code is verified then the user shall be able to access the system.The Super Admin
shall give the user the required access and the role of the system.The Super Admin has full
authority to manage role-based access for every user.
Student Dashboard & Features :
Once a student's registration has been verified and approved, they can log in and access their
personal dashboard. A student can:
Academic & Administrative Activities :
● View Profile
● Apply for a testimonial and pay the necessary fees.
● Apply for Budget
● Apply for Extra-Curriculum Activity Certificate
Financial Activities
● Pay semester tuition fees if eligible.
● View all past payment records.
● Download/receive payment receipts.
Notices
● View Notices given by IIT authority/teachers

Teacher Dashboard & Features
After the registration is done, the teacher can log in and access their personal dashboard. A
teacher is able to:
Student Management :
● Check which of the students have paid fees and which do not.
● Budget Confirmation
Notice:
● Send notices to students
Staff Dashboard & Features
Staff members receive their personal dashboard after approval of their registration. They can:
Financial Verification :
● Verify all payment transactions made by the students.
● Send Notices to students
● Testimonial Generation
● ECA Certificate Generation
● Allocate Payment schedules to Students
Document Verification :
● Testimonial information should be verified.
● Preparation and issue of the official testimonial to students.
Super Admin Dashboard & Features :
Super Admin is the most powerful role within the system and has full access to all modules and
operations.
User & Role Management :
● Approve, reject or edit student, teacher and staff accounts.
● Manage and control role-based permissions and access levels.
● Monitor the activities of all users across the system.
Full-featured System Monitoring :
● Oversee the entire workflow of the system.
● Perform all duties that can be executed by teacher and staff roles.
All the users in the system can reset their password in the login page of the system.
